Now I am going to show you how to properly
assemble and maintain your saxophone daily.
First of all I'm going to start off with the
mouth piece. Now, again you need to clean
this mouth piece every time you get done playing
or whenever you think about it. Basically
we're going to remove our ligature and put
on the reed and take our reed, we'll need
to wet that first of course, just so ever
slightly put that on there and make sure it's
kind of lined up pretty good. Put your ligature
back on. You always want to make sure your
screws are to the back unless you have a Revenuer
ligature then of course your screws would
go to the front. I'll tighten down real good.
Then you want to check for suction. Make sure
that everything is tight. Next we're going
to go onto our main body and putting our neck
on. Basically when you put your neck on you
just want to drop it in. Make sure the neck
is lined up straight with the body for proper
working of the octave mechanism. Ok. When
we've got that straight we want to tighten
that down. That's how to assemble a saxophone;
pretty simple. Now I'm going to show you how
to go ahead and daily take care of it. I'm
going to take our lacquer cloth; every time
you get done playing just make it a religious
thing, so go ahead and wipe of the outside
of your instrument real good and especially
the keys. They are made of nickel. They will
cloud up and look; your nice pretty shiny
keys will look like clouds, so that is really
not necessarily a good thing. Ok. So next
we want to take our swab here, here’s our
swab. Now, this should be done every time
you get done playing as well. Just for; help
to help keep your bore clean, keep moisture
away from the pads and keep everything in
line so you don't have to; it's really best
that you get your instrument maintained by
a profession once every year; just to make
sure everything that you're doing is correct
and everything on the instrument. Of course
we just want to go ahead and pull that through
and clean it out. That is how to assemble
and properly maintain your instrument daily.